In this video, I'm going to be sharing
with you the latest email marketing
tips, strategies, and techniques that
are working incredibly well right now.
Because email has evolved a lot in the
past 12 months from how brands handle
segmentation and automation all the way
to how they're writing and designing
their emails to make conversions, and
that evolution is only accelerating. The
good news, most of these changes
actually work in your favor if you know
how to take advantage of them. This
video will give you the most up-to-date
strategies you can use to stay ahead of
the curve and outperform your
competition before they catch up to you.
Let's jump into the strategies. The
first strategy is dead simple but
insanely effective. And that is using
plain text support style emails inside
of your automated email flows. Now, your
automated email flows are your automated
emails that are going to find your
customer based on an action they take in
the customer journey, such as the
welcome flow if somebody signs up to
your email list or the abandoned cart
flow if somebody adds an item to cart
and then leaves. Then also post purchase
sort of stuff. Most brands try to make
every single email of theirs super
graphic heavy and they go crazy with
everything, branded headers,
infographics, everything. And that's
great. You definitely need those for a
lot of your emails. These are incredibly
helpful for ongoing engagement, visually
appealing your customers, and getting
continued engagement and preventing
unsubscribes. However, what we found on
testing on over 100 7 to9 figure
e-commerce brands in this past year
alone is that in 2025 and 2026, the
customer loves personal sort of emails
that feel like they're coming from
another human. Because how would you
feel if you were thinking about making a
purchase, maybe it's a big decision,
you're thinking between different
competitors, and a founder or a member
on the team you're considering
personally reached out to you over email
and asked if you had any questions about
your order. You probably feel pretty
good and you probably have a little bit
more trust and liking for the company,
potentially just enough trust to
actually place an order. And the numbers
speak for themselves. Consistently, our
best performing emails are these
personal textbased emails strategically
inputed into certain flows or big
campaign events. Now, a lot of brands
have caught on to this and have started
to send these sort of textbased and
personal style emails, but most of them
are just sending these emails to their
email campaigns or the broad blast to
their email lists. However, the smart
brands that are ahead of the curve are
implementing these sort of emails into
their automations. Here are my favorites
that you can implement. First is going
to be a textbased email like this from
the founder, which is going to overcome
a frequently asked question or an
objection from the customers. And you
want to place this into your email
welcome flow. Ideally, email around 3, a
couple days after somebody has signed up
to the email list, but they haven't
purchased. We look at this example. It
says, "The most common question I get
is, "What does Breeze taste like? It
makes sense. Buying a drink you found on
the internet is a little risky,
especially if it just tastes like
another sad club soda." So, you're
addressing this objection upfront and
having that personal sort of like feel
in writing like a friend. And then he
explains the taste and then reminds the
discount right here. Then ending with a
personal touch, much love, and ending
with the name and a little bit of life
right here. This is perfect. insert one
of these into your welcome flow and I
promise that is going to be the highest
performer. Great execution. And then we
have a couple of examples right here
going over putting these emails into
your abandonment flows. So here's one
example of a brand founder reaching out
to somebody who was browsing the website
but they didn't find any style or
anything that they liked. And so just
personally reaching out with a super
quick and punchy message being like,
"Hey, it's Michelle. I'm the founder. I
noticed you browsing our site and I know
that things can be difficult. Here's a
link to our bests sellers. PS, the
iPhone 16 just came out and we already
have these cases for it." and then
giving a discount and a link to purchase
right there. Simple and effective.
Here's another example for an actual
abandoned cart or abandoned checkout
email coming from someone on the team
saying, "Hey, I hope you're keeping in
good health so you really have that
personal feel." Address the abandonment
and then go into some social proof. This
is something that you want to be able to
fit in if you can. Mix in some social
proof and also point out that you have
support members ready to answer
questions if you have any. It's just
super personal and this sort of thing is
going to print. And then of course, if
you're doing any discounts, then you can
feature your discounts right here. If
somebody hasn't purchased in a while or
somebody signed up to the email list and
they just haven't bought yet, feel free
to send something like this from the
founder just reminding of the mission
and then extending the discount for the
customer. You just want to make sure
that these emails have life. They don't
feel like a robot reaching out. It
actually feels like the founder reaching
out to the customer. Keep it nice and
simple. Don't try to do an essay of
information. And I promise you, putting
these into your email automations are
going to make you a lot of money. Now,
this next strategy can double your email
and SMS revenue without you sending a
single email or SMS. And most brands
completely overlook this and especially
the advanced strategies that I'm about
to show you. And this strategy is all
about spending time creating high
converting and engaging pop-up forms on
your website to grow your email and SMS
lists. Here's the thing. If you could
double the opt-in rate of your signup
form, then you would in turn double the
size of your email and SMS lists. And
that means double the people to nurture,
double the people who are going to be
educated, and double the people who
convert off your content, and double the
amount of first-time buyers who turn to
repeat buyers, and so on and so on. The
best part is this can directly lower
your cost per acquisition off of your
ads if you're spending a lot on ads to
your website. Because for no extra ad
spend, if you could double your email
sign up form conversion rate, you can
get all those people who are skeptical
and weren't quite ready to buy off of
your website just after seeing one ad
and send them emails to educate them and
build that trust until they purchase.
For no extra ad spend, you get more
conversion. And then over time, you're
going to drive repeat purchases from
them and drive up your LTV as well. Now,
I know what you're thinking. You
probably have a pop-up form installed,
but I hate to break it to you, but it's
more than likely pretty trash. I review
over 10 7 to9 figure e-commerce brands
every single week. If you want me to
review yours, just go to the link in the
description and I'll run an audit of
your account. And most of them have it
completely wrong. Old pop-up forms of
2024, just ask somebody for their email.
They slap a boring box that says, "Sign
up for 10% off and hope that somebody
signs up." That's not compelling
anymore. The customer has seen that a
million times, and everyone does that.
Whenever the customer sees this sort of
popup on their phone while they're
browsing, their thumb is already moving
to the top right corner to find that X
button to close out of that pop-up form.
The pop-ups that convert double or
triple what those old forms do are
actually engaging and they feel
personalized to the customer. Not only
that, they have a cool design, but most
importantly, they are asking a question
or getting a micro commit from the
customer before we ask for their email
address. It seems counterintuitive
asking a step before we ask for
somebody's email. You think how does
more work for the customer convert for
more conversions? But this all plays
into psychology. Let's break it down.
Now, an old form would just show
something like this, like you have this
discount, 15% off, enter your email. But
again, like I said, the customer has
seen this way too many times. Instead,
before that, we want to have some sort
of popup like this where instead of
asking somebody straight for their email
address, they just see, oh, share what
problem I'm trying to solve. I'm
probably going to get customized
solutions for this and I get a discount.
That's just the added bonus. and it
doesn't ask for the email and the person
doesn't know it's coming. What this does
is it lowers the barrier to entry. The
person doesn't have to type out their
email. All they have to do is click a
button which is much easier and has way
less cognitive load for the user. So, we
get over 50% of people who actually
engage with this first step. To put that
into context, typically a form like the
one that I showed you on the right only
has a 4% conversion rate. We can get up
to 50% of people interacting with that
first step. So once somebody clicks what
their problem is, then this exact sign
up will show up asking for the email
address. And this triggers
psychologically what's called commitment
bias in humans. Once you start doing
something, you're much more likely to
follow through. You've already started
momentum and you don't want to stop. So
this person is thinking, "Oh, I have
this discount. Let me just answer this
question." They answer the question and
then it asks for the email and the
person is thinking in their head like,
"Ah, I already started. I might as well
finish." And so then they're entering
their email address at a much higher
rate. And if you don't believe me, you
can look at the numbers. Here was the
before and after of implementing this
quiz popup inside of Clavio. We did not
change anything about the offer. All
that we did was we introduced this sort
of quiz. And you could see the
performance before a 4.7% conversion
rate. Then after the quiz mobile popup,
12.5% after just running this for a
week. If you don't believe that, here is
another example. Splitting things by
mobile and desktop right here. Compared
to the prior version right here, 4.6 6%.
You'd think that's solid. And this is
what they were doing before, just doing
straight to an email address. And then
we implement our mobile quiz pop-up and
we get 11% over a double in their list
growth. And this is only live for one
week. Imagine over a year if we're
getting double the amount of people on
the email list. And even desktop at 9.2%
as well. A clean double. Now, you don't
always need to do a quiz. You can do
something like this called the micro
commit where you don't ask for the email
address in that first step. You just
say, "Hey, do you want this discount?"
It's just yes, I want it or no thanks,
I'll pay full price. that works as well.
Plays into commitment bias, but it's a
little bit less personalized. When we do
pop-up forms that are like this with
you've got this discount, share what
problem you're trying to solve, we also
get data from the customer. And so,
we're able to leverage that
personalization inside of our emails in
the future. This is what gets people to
convert. And if you have a prettyl
looking design like this that's more
than just like a ugly templatized sort
of like discount, then you're also
automatically going to get a lot more
people opting in just cuz it's more
visually engaging. Just go to your
website today and ask yourself, is this
popup exciting? Would I want to give my
email to this? If the answer is no, test
something new. Add a first step. Make it
feel like a conversation. And you'll
watch your list and revenue grow much
faster. And the next strategy I want to
talk about for what is working in 2025
in 2026 honestly might be the most
important. And that is sending valuep
packed email campaigns that are not
discount oriented three times per week
consistently. The biggest mistake that I
see most brands make is they're sending
too little content or they're sending
the wrong type of content. I'll save you
four years of testing and sending over 1
billion marketing emails on what works
the best. And that is send emails three
times per week. Not once per week where
people forget who you are and not every
single day because people will get
burned out. Get that sweet spot of
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, three times
per week. This just builds rhythm. It
builds recognition. And most
importantly, if you send the right
content, it builds trust. Now, I know
what you're thinking. What are we
sending? Cuz we don't want to send just
sale, sale, sale. We don't want to train
people to wait for a discount in order
to purchase. We're trying to build
desire and trust without needing
discounts. When you consistently give
value in your emails that are
well-designed and well-written, people
will not unsubscribe, and you will
release dopamine in their head, and they
will actually look forward to hearing
from you. That's when you start making
sales without needing discounts. When
you get people opening up every single
one of your emails, looking forward to
them, and thinking about you throughout
the day. You'll be in the back of their
head, and then the next time they have
any sort of minuscule need for your
product, you're going to be the first
brand that comes to mind. They're going
to look up your website on Google and
they're going to go make a purchase from
you. That is our goal. That's when you
start making sales without discount.
They read one email, they skip your next
couple emails, they read another, they
read another, then eventually they trust
you enough to buy at full price. Sale
emails are just too focused on give me
the sale right now and they skip that
trust factor rather than slowly building
up that trust piggy bank where
eventually it's full enough to where
people are ready to convert and then
become actual advocates for the brand.
Selling people in sales, they don't
become advocates, they just become
people who are there for quick buck. For
most of the brands that we work with,
these value based emails become the
number one driver of their revenue. More
than their automations, more than their
big flows, but these consistent
value-based emails. I keep throwing
around the word value. So, what kind of
value emails actually work? Well, I'm
glad you asked. Here are 29 of my
favorites right here, and I'm going to
go through a few of them in a little bit
more detail, but if you want this, feel
free to steal any of these. But I want
to highlight some of my favorites. One
of which being the one benefit email,
which as it sounds, we just want to
focus on one benefit of our product.
Rather than overwhelming people with a
million different benefits of our
product, if we just double down on one
of them, it becomes much more digestible
for the customer and they're much more
likely to actually internalize that and
then buy from us. So, for this one, it's
just banish festive foggess. Magic mind,
this product has all sorts of different
productivity benefits, but instead of
focusing all of them, they just talked
about festive foggess. They explain it a
little bit and then they explain the
three steps for using their product and
boom, that's the email. And then for
this brand, seed, this is the whole
entire email. All they're talking about
is getting rid of bloat. They give a
stat, they give a couple of
testimonials, and all these talk about
is dealing with bloat. Mix these with
quick copy, prettyl looking designs, and
you've got emails that people will
continue to come back for. Similar to
that, we have the one feature email,
which is going to be one feature of your
product. Rather than focusing on one of
the benefits, we want to focus on one of
the parts of our product and why we
chose that. Here's an example of one of
the products. They use Tammanu oil. And
so this whole email, all it talks about
is that one feature of the product so
that you can learn something about that
and why we use that. And in this one,
for example, it talks about what we mean
by instantized creatine. The creatine
has that feature. And here's exactly
what that feature means and how it
works. Another one that we want to
double down on just simplicity is the
frequently asked question. Don't focus
on a million frequently asked questions.
What if we just answered one frequently
asked questions in our emails? Keep it
nice and simple. And this is the stuff
that converts. A couple more in-depth
examples would be like what's inside, so
exactly what's inside your product or
what's inside one of your welcome kits.
You can do how to use, so exactly how to
use your product. This is great cuz you
can also send this to people who bought
from you and need some education on the
product. But it's also going to help
people understand like exactly how to
use their product if they do end up
purchasing. We have a back-end stock
email which automatically has built-in
urgency because if something is back in
stock, that means it went out of stock
and it had demand. So by creating a
back-end stock email, you already create
demand. We have trending products as
well, just because people like to move
with the masses. Keep your emails nice
and simple, promoting some trending
products. We have my favorite, the
reviews and testimonials email. My
favorites are ones like this that just
highlight a couple really passionate
testimonials and maybe even just one.
These work really, really well. You have
us versus them. So, showing how you
compare versus your competitors. The
list goes on and on. Myths versus facts,
what's wrong in the industry versus like
how we overcome these products. Research
study highlights. So, what does research
say about specific parts of our product?
Holiday emails. So, use chat GBT to ask
you if there are any holidays coming up
that are tied to your brand. And there
are even 100 non-discount emails that
have a list for you right here. If there
are any product focus, you want to do
product focus emails, here are 20
different non-discount emails that you
can do. If you want to focus on
education, there are 20 right here for
you. If you want to do customer and
social proof based stuff, you have these
20. Brand and community, you want to get
people close to your brand, 20 more
examples right here. If you want to have
a little bit of fun and get creative,
then here are 20 more. You get the
point. There are a lot of different
angles that you can use, but the main
theme that you notice in these is that
we're not using any discounts. We keep
the email short, snappy, and super
simple for the customer to understand.
We mix that with unique copy and
dopamine delivering design, and you have
a recipe for non-discount emails that
convert. Send those three times per
week, and you are ahead of 99% of your
competition. Now, if you want to learn
more about strategies that will keep you
ahead of your competition, watch this
video. It should honestly not be free,
and it goes over more of these
strategies in depth. If you're an
e-commerce brand and want a team to take
care of your email, there's a link to
book a call in the description with me
and we'll potentially chat.